# Response on Eight Lessons learned about Non-verbal Interactions through Robot Theater

Will the audience still be able to understand the narrative in the performance if robot performers don't speak? Why is it important to focus on non-verbal communication ability of the robots? In this article, the author explained these by providing eight lessons learned "from Robot Theater that inform the design of social robots today" (Knight 2011). She also points out that "non-verbal expression is key to understanding sociability". For human researchers, studying non-verbal communication under the context of dramaturgy and robot performance is important not only because "a robot’s movement and engagement pattern impact our interpretation of its intention, capability, and state" (Knight 2011), which means that we study non-verbal communication to understand robots' sociality more, but also because "physical theater provides pre-processed methodologies for interpreting and communicating human non-verbal behaviors that we are beginning to test on robots" (Knight 2011), which means that we study non-verbal communication to help us to understand our sociality as well via our non-verbal behaviors.

Among the eight conclusions the author made out of the eight lessons in the section of "Conclusion: The role of Robot Theater", I especially agree with the seventh one, and have doubt with the second one. The seventh conclusion, which is "audiences provide useful visceral and conscious feedback data to social robots in development". As the author points out in "Lesson 7 - Acknowledgement/Learning: Looping in Audience Feedback", it is important to "acknowledge the valence of the audience response to achieve higher knowledge attribution and make them feel more included, whether verbally or through gaze and body pose" (Knight 2011). Leaving aside post-humanism for the moment, the current human development of robots is more in the direction of human-like, which asks robots to progress towards a "highly cognizant of human social behaviors". This requires the robot to be able to adjust its performance according to the reaction of the live audience on stage (refer to talkshows, where there is real-time interaction with the audience). If robots merely perform autonomously on stage, the sociality of robots is diluted because it is difficult for people to feel the liveness of robots. 

I doubt the second conclusion the author made because even though it might be the case that having a form of body is beneficial for enabling more human-comprehensible communication, I don't really think that communication will always need body as a medium to be achieved. If Siri were to participate in a performance, Siri would be able to bring a lot of interesting content to the audience (eg. it could tell jokes, and perhaps later develop features such as singing), but it would not have a physical presence. So I would argue that a good performance does not necessarily need to have an actual body as the medium, the content of the performance is the most important. Still, it might true that having the body as a medium can be a catalyst for presenting more complex performances.
