# Autonomous Robots as Performing Agents by Karl R. Wurst and Robert McCartney 
  
This article describes “Woggles”, a kind of autonomous robots that utilizes various types of communication to provide interactive and improvisational performance to entertain their audience. 

Like some of my classmates, I also doubts the authors’ opinion that “they will be more entertaining and engaging than virtual agents” (Wurst&McCartney, 1996) before reading the later part of this article. This is partially because I have the inherent impression that the majority of robots are made of metal. In this case, I think their movements would be rather stiff. Especially in this show, the way the robots perform is to show their gestures, I would doubt whether they can show the gestures vividly and anthropomorphically. After reading the later part of the article, I realized that they are made of “flexible sphere that is mechanically deformable”, which definitely supports them to make more complicated moves. This has indeed shattered my perception of robots and made me wonder that why robots are more often presented in metal.

Another thing that makes me feel interesting is how those three woggles interact with each other, and even based on their own “personality”. It’s really cool to see that their gestures “is broadcast 360° by four transmitters”, and in this way they can see what each other’s doing from any position and thus make the corresponding moves. However, I would also doubt that how far this performance can go if it is still an improvisational performance. From my point of view, different characters’ behaviors that are based on their moves, such as “Wolf may decide to go pick on Shrimp”, may create a interesting interaction, but only for just a moment, as the gestural interactions are not that rich. As the authors also point out, it’s crucial to “look into structuring the performances by providing some type of plot mechanism”. To me, this is what makes a performance really rich and able to consistently engage the audience.
