# Response on Digital Theatre
reading the article, two key elements I believe the author is trying to emphasize are “human-like” and “interaction”. Should the robots just be human-like in their appearance or shapes, what interaction they should have in order to offer a good performance?

At the very beginning of the article, the author directly shows her opinion, “But robots…do not need to be humanoid in shape or size, or obviously built of metal or shiny plastic in order to be compelling in their uniqueness from their human co-stars. Their performative value is in their uniqueness from and their sameness to us and to “life,” at once” (Masura, 2020). I believe the message the author is trying to convey here is that what is more important in a robotic performance is how robot performers provide humanistic behaviors that are understood by humans in a “unique robotic way”. The author makes some examples to support her opinion, including R2D2 in Star Wars, to show that robots don't need to be "humanoid" to be resonated and loved by human audiences. As a Star Wars fan, I also love R2D2 a lot, not only because of the emotions he can express (though only through the beeps of the machine) but also because of its cute appearance, which in the author’s words, “was shaped like a trashcan”. In the movie, R2’s interaction with the human characters is very fluid. Although it cannot speak human languages like C-3PO, people can still perceive its emotions from the beeping sounds it emits at different speeds and pitches through its interaction with human characters. Furthermore, R2’s appearance is also not as humanoid as C-3PO and is more like a robot in the traditional sense, but still considered cute by audiences. These clues demonstrate good works that empathize with humans can also be expressed with the unique characteristics of robots.

In regards to the interactions between humans and robots, after reading this article, I argue that though it may be a personal preference thing, the core patterns of good interaction between humans and robots in regards to performance would be the same: robots can give real-time feedback to human performers and human audiences. Like the example of “Data” (created by Heather Knight from CMU), a robot that has a database that store jokes and more importantly, would adjust its behaviors after seeing audiences’ reactions (in the video, most people choose to wave the green paper, which means that they like the jokes, and Data thanks them in the end). This means that by inputting cutting-edge technologies such as computer vision, artificial intelligence into robots, they are able to give real-time feedback to human performers.

The question I have is that does it really matter if a robot “take charge” and lead performers to follow their action during a performance, or it is OK if only the performance’s effect is good. I come up with this question after seeing the power dynamic in the Baxter example.



