# Robots: Asleep, Awake, Alone, and in Love Reading Response
For me, the thing that interests me the most in this article is the idea of “robots are the medium for human emotion projection”. 

In the article, the author quotes Verdonck’s conversation with Robotics, in which he makes an example of comparing the robots to a teddy bear, “you take it to bed and it is your closest friend for years, and you tell it all your secrets so that it becomes the most intimate relationship, and you can feel love for your teddy bear”. Thus, he concludes by saying “Objects don’t need to produce our emotion. We will project emotion towards them” (Verdonck 2014b). His words inspire me to consider one of the essential questions in regards to human-robot relations, which is “why and in what circumstances do humans need a robot”. Now, it’s obvious that humans have been using robots for helping them with industrial manufacturing. However, this article demonstrates that robots are increasingly being used in industries related to human emotions, namely, those that are related to the performing arts. I am especially struck by the play that describes a female robot comforter reciting poetry for a terminally ill young woman in the aftermath of the Fukushima earthquake. I believe that in the face of disaster, the first reaction of most people is often to save their own lives, and therefore do not have time to care about the situation of others. In the aftermath of a disaster, many people are in a trance-like state of mind and therefore have no time to comfort others. In contrast, robots can do things that humans cannot do. The author, therefore, argues that “robots show more empathy than humans”. 

I do not agree with this view. I think to a large extent robots are able to do these things because they are programmed to be like this, and they are programmed to be "perfect". However, even if these robots are able to show so-called empathy not based on a strong sense of morality, they are still useful to humans. When humans need emotional comfort, other humans may not be able to help because perhaps they are also in emotional distress. "Emotional" robots, on the other hand, will bring perfect emotional support. 

According to this logic, humans should want these robots to be as anthropomorphic as possible, so that people can better receive spiritual comfort from them. Therefore, I have a question in regards to “should robots be as anthropomorphic as possible”. In the article, the author quotes Eckersall “This is possibly not a case of the uncanny valley where the robots too closely resemble the human form and thereby cause anxiety in human interactants” (Eckersall 2015). I wonder in what circumstance should the robots be more anthropomorphic, and is this just a personal preference thing?
