# Response on On Stage: Robots as Performers
This article presents the reader with a "real-time adaptive and autonomous robotic improvisation system" that uses "anticipatory beat-matched action to enable real-time synchronization with the human player". What is noteworthy is that in this process of human-robot coordination, the robots adopt “continuity” and “responsiveness” when presenting performances, which are more and more regarded as “’actors’ one the human stage” in this way.

I’m especially impressed by the fact that human directors want to let the robots to have their own “inner monologue”. Modern performers believe that in performance, “any particular action results from the character’s desires, will, and needs”. Therefore, “[Your inner monologue] is more important than memorizing your lines”. And for robots, this means that they not only should utilize “the most recent input and decision-node”, but more importantly, the “a continuous and multi-layered stream of constantly changing internal parameters” which can create a certain “inner monologue” for them. 

However, I have to say that I doubt this assertion that this is the “inner monologue” of robots. While it is true that this “help avoid the command-and-response behavior robots usually display, and lead to more fluency and acceptance in human-robot joint activities” and even gives the robots the ability to “opportunistically respond to a human cue when it fits the current musical movement”, we all know that after all, robots don’t have real thoughts or emotion, at least for now. As we can see from the article, the human effort is to make robots as similar to us as possible. But we need to admit that until robots have self-consciousness (or maybe they never will), it's hard for us to actually make them to have what's called an "inner monologue." All we did was make the performance smoother. This also goes back to the point that Professor mentioned in the class, also the question I have after reading the article: Is such an assertion that robots have “inner monologue” a kind of "colonization" of robots?
