# Response on The Freudian Robot: Digital Media and the Future of the Unconscious

"Do human beings become masters of their machines, or their slaves?", this is a question brought up in the article, which is very debatebal.In the article, the author discusses this topic by citing the example of the dialogue between Confucius' disciple Zigong and the old farmer in "Zhuangzi" (I am glad that the article mentions the ancient Chinese wisdom). The starting point of Zigong's idea is different from that of the old farmer: Zigong takes the view of productivity (a kind of materialism-like idea), where the productivity of human beings would be significantly increased if an automated machine could help or even replace them in farming, while the old farmer takes the view of ethics. He believes that if a person does his/her work in the manner of a machine lets his/her mind run like a machine, which eventually let him/her lose innocence.

After reading this example as well as the example showed later in the article about President Nixon utilizing the double system of accounting to "one to keep the truth from the people, the other to tell the truth to the computer", I come up with the question: who should be held accountable when something goes wrong, human or robots? I believe that in the end, it is always us as human that should be held accountable. Think about this kind of situation in which the robots are doing harm to human (ex. the killer robots kill innocent people), who should be punished afterwards, the robots themselves or the human figures that create them and allow them to be used? I bet a lot of people would choose the latter option. In many cases, the process of operating robots are described as the process of "opening a black box", especially to those robots that include artificial intelligence elements. This is because after human turn them on, what the robots will be doing can be unpredictable, and if there is no intervention imposed on the robots (e.g., no human is present, or the robot is designed to be fully automated), there will be a certain degree of possibility for them to behave wrongly, and the result caused by this may be irreversible.

But that does not necessarily mean that human will be robots' slave after they turn them on. What is really scary is that human can easily rely on robots and left them to perform without effective intervention because of human's own interests. For example, in the capitalist market, productivity has been overemphasized partially due to the advent of machines. For some countries and firms that lack machines, in order to compete in the global market with those that have machines, they press workers to do more work. So, will machines be disabled by the existence of such systematic oppression? Of course not, because the people who make them need to reap the benefits of these machines. Indeed, this is contradictory.
